Blog: A/B testing examples from YC’s top companies (#6278)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/ab-testing-examples.md

---
title: "5 A/B testing examples from YC’s top companies"
date: 2023-07-11
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags:
 - Guides
 - Y Combinator
---

> [A/B testing](/docs/experiments/manual) is a powerful tool when used correctly. The key word here is "**correctly**." Only comparing a new feature, copy change, or query with the old version does not create success.
> 
> In the wise words of Picasso, "Good artists copy, Great artists steal." To help you become a great A/B test "artist," we’ve researched how some of Y Combinator’s top all-time companies do A/B tests, and we’re giving you the summary here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[A/B testing](/ab-testing) is powerful when used correctly, but it's easily misused. Only comparing a new feature, copy change, or query with the old version does not create success.

In the wise words of Picasso: "Good artists copy, great artists steal." So, to help you become a great A/B test "artist," we’ve researched how some of Y Combinator’s most successful companies do A/B tests.

And, if you're new to A/B testing, we recommend reading our [software engineer's guide to A/B testing](/blog/ab-testing-guide-for-engineers) for a primer.
```

> ## 1. Monzo: Pellets

Reviewer: Alternatively... Monzo – A classic approach to top-of-funnel testing

1. **Handoff:** one person preps and another picks up and delivers.
2. **Full service:** one person does everything: prep, pickup, and delivery.

For each order, their routing algorithm tries to create a handoff trip, and if it wasn’t possible, create a full service trip. They wanted to test a new algorithm splitting orders into handoff or full service depending on which was more efficient from the start, rather than successively. 

![Instacart optimizer](../images/blog/ab-testing-examples/optimizer.png)

When planning the test, they realized they couldn’t just split by customer or shopper because those were interdependent. For example, deliveries from both algorithms might dispatch to the same shopper. Instead, they tested the new algorithm with:

- **Simulations** to replay the history of customer and shopper behavior using the new algorithm. This showed a 2.1% increase in efficiency.
- After the simulations were positive, they temporarily launched the new algorithm in San Francisco. Doing **before and after analysis** showed an estimated efficiency increase of 2.9%.

> - Along with this, they checked **differences in differences** to compare SF (where the change launched) and Oakland (where it didn’t) which were geographically similar and showed correlated efficiency before and after the change.

Author: Tried to reword

_Read more at "[Beyond A/B Test: Speeding up Airbnb Search Ranking Experimentation through Interleaving](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering/beyond-a-b-test-speeding-up-airbnb-search-ranking-experimentation-through-interleaving-7087afa09c8e)."_

### Improving accuracy with dynamic p-values

Like many companies, Airbnb had confusion about how long to run A/B tests. Using only a p-value to decide requires you to design an experiment with a desired sample and effect size. Another issue with it is potentially hitting your p-value early and ending the test prematurely. 

In Airbnb’s case, they found a pattern of hitting "significance," and then converging back to neutral in their experiments. For example, they ran an experiment changing the max price filter value to $1000. In it, the test variant had a positive effect and p-value below 0.05 on days 7 and 13; however, as the experiment went on, the p-value increased to 0.4 and the effect became neutral. If they concluded the experiment on day 13, they would ship a change with no long-term positive impact.

![Static p-value problem](../images/blog/ab-testing-examples/static.png)

> To solve this, Airbnb calculated a dynamic p-value curve starting at 0 and then curving up towards 0.05 on day 30 to determine whether an early result is worth investigating. This creates enforced skepticism about early experiment results and helps reduce false positives.

Author: Ok, added this bit too

---

> title: "A/B testing examples from YC’s top companies"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "A/B testing examples from Monzo, Airbnb and other top YC companies"
```

> title: "5 A/B testing examples from YC’s top companies"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Practical A/B testing examples from Airbnb and YC's top companies"
```

I've obsessed over this damn headline for 40 mins and this is my answer. All good?

Reviewer: To explain a little bit, I always feel people are less likely to click on a list of 5 because it's the most generic list length – odd numbers are better, i.e. 7, 12, 9 and so on. "In-depth" conveys quality and Airbnb adds name recog. I did play with dropping YC and for something like "In-depth A/B testing examples from Airbnb, Instacart, and more", but I think this works.

If you're happy, feel free to merge.
